[Music]
so it's a bit of a tradition around here
to unbox the newest iPhones on the day
they come out and we're upholding a
tradition this year to find one single
difference versus last year's unboxings
so we've got four iPhones here in new
colors iPhone 16 and 16 plus which the
boxes show the back of the phones and
then 16 Pro and 16 Pro Max which show
the front and I'm totally going to start
with the base phones the crowd favorites
this year finally some colors back in
the iPhone lineup so I'm going to call
this one the flagship color this is the
ultramarine iPhone 16 and in the Box you
get the USBC cable again braided in high
quality and then a tiny little bit of
paperwork in this pill shape and then
you'll notice no SIM card tool same as
last year and no stickers this year
there are no stickers included in the
iPhone 16 box at all truly the end of an
era they just can't stop removing things
they can't help
El but let's get a look at the pink
plus-size phone too these phones are the
same sizes as last year 6.1 in for the
base 6.7 in for the plus but with the
bigger batteries inside that's something
I'm really happy to hear about and very
curious about in my testing but really
I'm just happy we finally have colors
back so the back of the phone it's a
little more pale but the glass around
the camera is a bit darker the rails of
the phone are a bit darker so this is
nice same stuff in the box now with
these Pro phones I think there's a
reason they show the front of the phone
on the box because if they show the back
you literally could not tell the
difference versus last year but hey at
least this one has slightly thinner
bezels they can show and yeah this here
is going to be the natural titanium 16
Pro and aside from the lack of stickers
in the Box it's going to look and feel
basically exactly like a titanium iPhone
15 Pro same USBC cable as the base phone
as well great but then this is the new
flagship Pro color the renders we saw at
first were kind of weird but this is the
official desert titanium color and you
know all of Apple's phones are again a
bit more pale on the back but they have
more color on these rails and that's
definitely true again here it's kind of
a like a light sand color but also feels
similar to the gold of the past but
there you have it that's the iPhone 16's
unboxing experience so by the time you
see this uploaded that means I am deep
into my iPhone 16 testing and working on
the full review so definitely get
subscribed to see that when it drops but
if there are any things that you
specifically want to see talked about
more or that haven't been talked about
enough for the review of the phones let
me know in the comment section below but
I can still give you now some quick
things that I've noticed in my first
couple days my first week of testing
some FAQs so first up there is a size
difference versus last year the base
phones are the same sizes like I said
6.1 and 6.7 in in the same body sizes
but the pro phones are are both bigger
the 16 Pro goes from 6.1 to 6.3 in and
even though it has thinner bezels yes
the phone is slightly taller and
slightly wider and then the 16 Pro Max
goes from 6.7 in to 6.9 in diagonally
which is now just an absolutely gigantic
phone I mean it was already huge but
it's now even taller and wider biggest
phone they've ever made if you look at
it next to the Galaxy s24 Ultra that's
another absolutely huge phone for some
context and that phone has a stylus in
it so obviously Apple's put more battery
in this phone which is great to see I'm
glad they're not going the opposite
direction of like making it thinner or
shrinking the batteries but yeah just
it's definitely get to know if you're
going with the new Pro Max this year you
getting a truly huge like borderline
tablet size phone also random tidbit
thanks to these new cameras up in the
corners these new iPhones are big time
table rockers like big time uneven
camera on the back it's annoying to me
cuz I type on the table sometimes anyway
I've also been taking some pictures and
videos with the new cameras I'll be
taking and posting many many more if you
want to follow me on Instagram that's
where you'll see some more in the next
couple days but I'll link that below my
first impression is it's it's kind of
remarkable how consistent Apple's image
processing pipeline is to get the same
look every year like a lot of times you
see companies switch sensors even the
pixel switch sensors after using the
same old one for a while and the whole
look kind of changed but it really feels
like year-over-year no matter how many
Hardware changes no matter how many
sensor changes these phones go go
through they still just have very much
have the iPhone look which I mean makes
sense this just shallower depth of field
from the larger physical sensor I have
also run some benchmarks so these are
the new geekbench six scores for the new
a18 and a18 Pro in these phones which
are new versus last year really not
noticing like a huge difference in
performance with these brand new phones
obviously you're going to feel that more
at the very high end and in the long
term as these phones age but what
geekbench also did reveal is all of
these phones across the board have 8
gigs of RAM now so there's typically
been different amounts of ram in the Pro
phone versus the regular phone now
there's not now they all have 8 gigs of
RAM so Apple was giving us a lot of talk
in that keynote about how these are the
first phones built from the ground up
for Apple
intelligence is that what this means I
mean you clearly need a lot of memory to
run these AI models and there's also a
more powerful neural engine on all the
phones versus last year so maybe that's
a part of it too but all that talk and
these phones all launch with iOS $18 o
which has exactly zero Apple
intelligence features on them at launch
out the
box but that's a rant for another day
but clearly the biggest physical new
change on these new phones is this added
button here and apple refused to call it
a button in the keynote and then doubled
down they also they did a bunch of like
executive interviews on various YouTube
channels that you can go watch from that
day and even in those interviews they
continue to refuse to call it a button
it's so weird just put out the biggest
burning fire right up front in the
discourse it is a real button
right it's it's it's a physical thing
that depresses right I think it's a
first of its kind it's there is a there
is a a tactile switch that gives you
that that final click so just to clear
it up it is an actual moving clicking
physical button that is called camera
control but it's also it's more than a
button it's also made it to all these
phones not just the pros so let me jump
into that this camera control button as
the name implies only controls camera
related things so it's not like another
action button it's a camera control
button you can hit it once it opens up
the camera you can hit it again to take
a photo and then you can hold it down to
start recording a quick video but it's
also a large capacitive touch sensitive
surface with a vibration motor
underneath so it doesn't actually half
press but with that vibration motor it
can mimic the feeling of a half press
like a real camera would have and you
can double tap to flip through various
camera controls like Zoom or
photographic Styles or tone it takes
some getting used to I mean these swipes
they also you can see have momentum
physics too so you can swipe too fast or
too far and go past what you were aiming
for or Zoom past where you thought you
would so it can feel a bit finicky and
silly as you start using it especially
since you can literally do all this
stuff with the buttons already on the
screen but when you use camera control
all of the rest of those buttons just
fade away and disappear kind of of
encouraging you to continue using the
camera control to find what you're
trying to do it's really interesting uh
the placement feels like it was made
with landscape in mind but landscape
ideally would have been at the corner uh
but they also know a lot of people take
photos and videos like this so it can't
be all the way at the bottom so they
moved it up so it's kind of splitting
the difference here uh and also
thirdparty apps will be able to plug
into it if they use the camera so this
is already working with Kino and it's
supposed to start working with Snapchat
pretty soon as well and you can imagine
other apps that use a camera will just
decide what they want to do with it I
was also curious though and I said this
in that original Impressions video how
cases would deal with this new button
surface thing so it turns out there's
basically two options option number one
is just a cutout in the side of the case
uh just cut it out expose it to the
finger so it's fine that's probably what
most cheap cases will do but that also
means it's no longer going to be flush
with the side of the case but then
there's option number two which is what
Apple's first-party cases do which is
putting in this little insert which has
glass and transfers the capacitance from
the button outside of the case to the
camera control of the phone itself and
maintaining that flush feel and it feels
like it works pretty well the half press
still works fine the swiping still works
fine the vibration motor transfers
through and the Beats By Dre cases also
already have
this yeah I'm just going to say that
again real quick in case you were just
phasing out for a second
there's Beats by Dre iPhone cases now
like since when does Beats make cases
like why does Beats make cases I thought
I don't know there was a theme of like
beats being audio products but there's
something new going on here maybe now
they're just iPhone accessories I don't
know but yeah they've got a nice little
camera control button thing on their new
iPhone cases which is nice I kind of
wish and I'm not alone uh that this was
also Touch ID but then they couldn't
call it camera control I guess I I
wonder if that's in the future of this
button but anyway speaking of third
party accessories that's where dbrand
stepped in to sponsor this video so for
this sponsor segment we're going to be
doing something a little bit different
see uh screen protectors not my favorite
thing they're kind of a chore to install
between the dust and the alignment and
getting it perfect that's a big part of
why I don't use them all the time um but
that's where Channel sponsor dbrand
comes in they seem to believe that I can
install their prism 2.0 screen protector
blindfolded so that's what I'm going to
try to do uh instructions have been told
are pretty simple to just get the screen
protector get the
phone and then line it up which is like
that and then pull the tab like that
and then just swipe down the middle to
press it
down give it a couple
seconds and then that should be it let's
see take this
[Music]
off
and that doesn't even look like it's
installed but it is it totally is it's
and it's perfect
nice okay yeah every every pris comes
with two of these so if you get the
first one wrong you can get a second try
but if you want to check these out for
the iPhone or any number of phones that
they make for it I'll have a link below
all right that's been it thanks for
watching catch you in the next one peace
[Music]